+++
author = ""
title = "Project Meeting"
date = "2019-11-04"
description = "1st Meeting with Chris and Dan"
tags = ["PhD", "Project"]
categories = ["Masters"]
series = ["University Journal"]
aliases = ["migrate-from-jekyl"]
+++

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> Points </center></font>  
---

- Project proposal pack for the PhD
    - Doc for training requirements 
    - Check email for document
    - single place where all phd development goes
    - live document that is completed over time
    - potentially will have access to everyone else's project plans too
    - background = bio for Joanne
    - how will project in sem 2 help with PhD

<br>

- Project Criteria:
    - section 2: intended impact for company, why project is innovative, thinking about stakeholders etc
    - section 3: linking up with phd students doing similar projects, checking different universities in CDT as well
    - section 4: supervisors from 2 institutions
    - section 5: thinking about ideal placements that will be useful, seeing if there are facilities we can use, find out expectations of phd project, find out timescale

<br>

- Industry based project:
    - won't impact on LDC countries, BAMF communities etc
    - may lead to projects in other courses that cover these areas
    - may go back to first year modules to cover areas in future years, doesn't have to apply to phd directly, may be areas of interest

<br>

- Use Project Descriptions to help write proposal
    - everything on mini-project should contribute to phd 

<br>

- Will share project plan and documents with industry sponsor in month 7
    - will focus project over time
    - 

<br>

- My contact will primarily be with the research groups at Salford + Imperial
    - Jen will have a much stronger link to the company
    - May end up with a much larger supervisory group depending on project 

<br>

- Our projects will lead to further projects
    - may lead to grants etc that lead to other students
    - probably will not involve us 

<br>

- Tom is the contact at RB
    - different for Jen and I
    - quarterly meeting in Hull which may involve us
    - KTP (Knowledge Transfer Partnership) -> transfer of info between uni and industry 

---

<br><br>

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> Important Notes </center></font>  
---

- Dan 
- Chris
- Guawei from computing
- Fernando from Imperial 
- Angela from Imperial

---

<br><br>

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> PhD Milestones </center></font>  
---

Typical PHD

- month 9/10: interim assessment, submit report, internal VIVA
- month 22: similar assessment with some chapters e.g. literature review, testing plan, results, internal VIVA, assessors involved in this VIVA can't be involved in final VIVA
- final VIVA = 1 internal, 1 external assessor

- want to publish as much as possible as we progress
- should publish in year 1 -> LDC countries mini project
- project work in month 7 -> can this be publishable

- Training budget associated with CDT
    - some money as a group
    - some money are specific travel budgets for each student
        - e.g. conferences
        - may be worth bidding for external/internal money to cover these too
            - competitively awarded

---

<br><br>

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> To do </center></font>  
---

- Populate project document 
    - fill out as much as possible before next meeting
    - need up-to-date version from Joanne
    - will know by month 6 what the plan for the project is, will have been connected to other phd projects etc

---

<br><br>

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> Semester 2 Elective Modules </center></font>  
---

- can access everything all years
- better to choose something to learn first rather than ignoring others 
- can think about access to other modules if that is needed

---

<br><br>

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> Supervision meetings </center></font>  
---

- submit report within 48hrs after meeting
    - describe tasks, things learned etc
    - form on PGR website
    - audited once a month

- may be worth having an agenda, planning questions
    - we will lead the meeting, have questions about the literature, project plan etc

- meetings will be separate

---

<br><br>

<font size="+7" color="orange"><center> Next Meeting </center></font>  
---

Monday 2nd December 3pm